{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;\f4\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-BoldOblique;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red160\green32\blue240;\red34\green139\blue34;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19100\viewh19520\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Dec 4, 2009\
\
Backed up all *.m files to Dec04_2009_before2009data.tar in each directory.\
Removed a lot of cases from TOC_params.m\
The 
\f1 \cf2 'Shell08_March_optimized' 
\f0 \cf0 case was the final parameters used for 2008.  The keyword
\f1 \cf2 \
'Shell08_final_parameters'\cf0  was also added to this data set.\
\
Created a new folder (perhaps temporary) 'BulkProcessing2009'\
\
Created in ComputerSpecificScripts.idr 'load_neural_network_path.m' and\
adjusted TOC_params.m so that it will operate on any computer system (no computer-specific path references).\
\
Corrected readgsi_header.m in CommonScripts.dir\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 WOrking on Site 2G 9/12--many repetitive pulses\
removed max_freq from site\
        param.interval_remove.names=\{\cf2 'min_freq'\cf0 ,\cf2 'total_duration'\cf0 \};\
        param.interval_remove.tol_feature=[[1  ]*(2*param.energy.bandwidth) 0.75];\
        \
there are going to be problems--lots of variation in min_freq--surprising..\
should check energy detector...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 **updated get_DASAR_separation.m and load_DASAR_coords.m so that\
DASAR_locations_2009 will be loaded...\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
 
\f3\i param.interval_remove.Ndet=10;\
        param.interval_remove.Nmiss=3;\
        param.interval_remove.ICItol=0.75;\
        \cf3 % param.interval_remove.names=\{'peak_freq','peak_duration'\};\cf0 \
        \cf3 %param.interval_remove.tol_feature=[ 5+(0.5*param.energy.bandwidth) 0.75*1000];\cf0 \
        \
        \cf3 %%Main run\cf0 \
        param.interval_remove.names=\{\cf2 'min_freq'\cf0 ,\cf2 'max_freq'\cf0 ,\cf2 'total_duration'\cf0 \};\
        param.interval_remove.tol_feature=[[1  1.5]*(2*param.energy.bandwidth) 5*0.75];
\f1\i0 \
        \
\
The toleration in duration not important.\
\
Using the TOC_param param.interval_remove values above, am running Site2 on macmussel and Site 3 on Kat's, starting from 912 to end of October.  All in BulkProcessingScripts2009.\
\
Icase_str='Shell09_Site%i_TestRun.morph.Final';\
params_chc='Shell09_initial';\
\
\
Dec 6, 2009\
Bad DASAR list:\
-1g failed after a few days\
-1f possibly unreliable sectors\
-3g poor bearings--excluded from recomputation\
\
-5f possible timing questions\
\
\
\
Dec 7, 2009\
\
Sites 4 and 5 processing on KatMacPro.\
Java script now assigned a unique ID; thus all_processing.m can be run twice in same folder.\
Macmussel and BulkProcessing synchronized\
\
Quick review of Site 2 and 3 map.  Some notes:\
	(1) Sep. 12, Site 2G: lots of seal/walrus sounds 5:17:43\
	(2) Sep. 12, 0:2:11:13 2G: example of two "whale" like seismics:\
			One set of pulses is 24 degrees site 2, 1.5 degrees site 5.\
			Another set of pulses is 79 degrees site 2, 75 degrees site 5\
	Thus one site is quite close, other far far to the east.\
\
	(3) BP calibration throughout day just east of Site 2, will need GPS track (midday).\
	(4) September 14.  Intensive bowhead song captured on both Sites, leading to duplication of sounds.See specgram samples from 6 AM Sites 2 and 3.\
\
\
Jan 11, 2010\
\
I have been working on the interval detector again.  I revised JAVA code to create an "all_chann" set of objects\
that write all channels of a time series to a snips file.  This data can then be used to\
compute bearings of all raw detections, which is then used as a "feature" for computing ICI.  At first blush\
seems to work well.\
\
Another modification that improves performance is increasing param.interval_remove.Ndet to 20, Nmiss to 10- i.e can miss 50% of points put wait longer.  Another key improvement was adaptively updating the ICI estimate every time\
new pulses fit the current template.  Previously, I had been using the 'pred_time' variable to re-estimate, which\
adds no new information--I needed to use the actual measured times of the new pulses.\
\
A difficulty arose when considering how to log a clipped signal.  The DASARC java blocks filter the data, so a clipped\
signal may not be clipped in the output.  I decided when a raw signal is clipped to simply write a clipped value\
to the output.  However, this caused the IRR filter to crash, so I had to create two storage matricies, one\
for use of the IRR and one for output.  Now clipped values exist in the snips file...\
\
2pm:  Updated macmussel JAVA and matlab codes...\
\
Jan 14,2010\
Some manual calls are being removed because all .wght are zero, but otherwise are legit...\
Example:  8/28 site 5c 10:09:25\
\
Jan 25, 2010\
Implemented svn across all computers, learned that to make movies must use 'figure(gcf)' just before.\
\
Modified plot_movie_all_auto to make logfiles of false alarms, Diana Ponce now processing. Revision 25 is the original code she is using. It's clear a lot of seal call fragments are being passed.\
\
evaluate_raw_detection2.m now eliminated!\
\
Ran a training data set,  Icasestr=\cf2 'Shell09_Site%i_NeuraNetJan22.morph.NoNeuralNet'\cf0 , no revisions to image procesing.\
       \
\
bufferTol for evaluate_linking is now 2 instead of 6.  Some differences, not too strong.\
evalute_linking and evaluate_individual_stations now using the same subroutines, and redundancy removed.\
\
 \
Jan 30, 2010\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 I have been trying to update neural network for 2009 data, eliminating seal calls.  I have been examining\
the original parameters used for the Jun4, 2008 network training data:\
50% overlap in frequency and time domain, with no buffer time originally.\
No pca used, no manual data rejected due to failure to localize or localize position.\
Two layers of ten neur
\f1\b0 ons...\
\
**The find_similar_elements_ovlap.m function added a "redundancy" feature after June4 and before August.\
Spent a lot of time thinking about handling redundant auto hits.  That is, if the automated detector\
divides a long seal trill into a set of individual detections, then there will be multiple auto segments\
that overlap the large box drawn by the manual operator.  Which segment should be best?  Should all segments go into\
the neural net.\
\
**I've decided that if freq info available the "best" match will be determined by bandwidth*duration.  If only time info available, then max duration segment wins.  This avoids selecting tiny pieces that have 100% overlap within the box.  PREIVOUS TO THIS THE AUTO DETECTION WITH MAX TIME OVERLAP HAS been selected.\
\

\f2\b The user has a choice when activating evaluate_individual_stations, whether to ignore redundacies or treat as "true" detections.  For neural net, training between whale and pinniped, decided to treat as "true".\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 Results on KatMacPro under 'Shell09_Site*_TestRun/morph/*UpdatedNetTest*\
This is was was used for Shell09 final report..
\f1\b0 \
\

\f2\b By contrast, the 2008 data used for the final report has the form on macmussel:\
Site_01/Shell08_Site1_PeakBulkRunCore2/morph/S108K0T20080813T000000_Final_Huber_FilteredLocations_fixedseismicveto_intervalfilterNoDtCheck.mat\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Nwhale =\
 \
        2212        2199        2185        2174\
       17034       15721       15184       14818\
       17434       15970       15373       14921\
       10968       10542        9919        9632\
       31597       30087       28921       28310\
 \
 \
 \
Nfalse =\
 \
        1674        1649        1615        1598\
        3103        2982        2873        2826\
        2327        2220        2115        2049\
        1425        1378        1346        1321\
        1547        1458        1395        1380\
\
Nred =\
 \
           0           0           0         449\
           0           0           0        1428\
           0           0           0         563\
           0           0           0         217\
           0           0           0         440\
\
\
April 5, 2010\
\
Starting to write paper, investigating implementing bearing interval removal for 2008 data set.  Reviewing 2008\
airgun analysis, looking for whale calls swept up in bearing analysis.  One example seems to be 10/01/2008  9:19:00.\
The ICI is scattered between 5 and 10 sec.\
\
\
Walrus calls 2f between 9/10/08, 7:14 to 9:19 AM, captured by ICI detector.... ICI all over the place...\
\
19-Aug-2008 11:54:06 (2f): shot intervals are 4 seconds!\
21-Aug-2008 10:10:39:  shot intervals irregular, 23 seconds, and 10-12 sec\
10-Sep-2008 07:56:47: more walrus, picked up by ICI, but period less than 4 sec...\
22-Sep-2008 21:24:17:  first real point of confusion between whale call sequence and airgun\
23-Sep-2008 06:04:49 more problems, ICI 7.75 bearing 177\
\
October 1 a real mess of calls bursting through, little seismic activity.  Study here...\
\
April 6-7, 2010\
\
Added following code to interval detector, in order to remove flagging of whale calls\
during heavy call times.  Code checks to see whether ICIs of adjacent pulses are similar to\
current pulse...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0  ctimes=datenum(2008,10,1,3,11,39);
\fs24   %simple downsweep\
01-Oct-2008 05:36:00: walrus\
01-Oct-2008 03:14:40: odd harmonic call\

\fs28  ctimes=datenum(2008,10,1,3,14,43);  \cf3 %strong harmonic call with three pieces
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28        
\fs24 \
Revision 119-122 extensively commented but no fundamental changes...\
122 has the greatest cosmetic changes.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f4\i\b \cf0 ***Revision 121 is the "standard" code for month-long 2008 reprocessing\
Icasestr='Shell08_Site%i_NeuralNetupdated.morph.BearingInterval';  %Reload TestRun image data, export as DoubleNetTestparams_chc='Shell08_Recompute_BearingInterval_NeuralNetupdated';\
**
\f1\i0\b0 \
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
r122 | thode | 2010-04-19 09:29:01 -0700 (Mon, 19 Apr 2010) | 1 line\
\
further comments in extract_image_features inc. link_features\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
r121 | thode | 2010-04-14 12:23:16 -0700 (Wed, 14 Apr 2010) | 1 line\
\
comments added through extract_ridge_traces.m\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
r120 | thode | 2010-04-12 12:24:51 -0700 (Mon, 12 Apr 2010) | 1 line\
\
adding short plot to review_airguns.m\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
r119 | thode | 2010-04-12 12:23:53 -0700 (Mon, 12 Apr 2010) | 1 line\
\
extensive commenting of scripts\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
r118 | thode | 2010-04-09 08:24:48 -0700 (Fri, 09 Apr 2010) | 1 line\
\
revised ICI/debug for process_one_unit.m\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
r117 | thode | 2010-04-08 15:01:27 -0700 (Thu, 08 Apr 2010) | 1 line\
\
Added bearing ICI correction to all_processing.m, now adjacent ICI check in place as well\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
\
\
Code bugs/improvements...\
extract_image_features/link_calls:  \
\
	Many corrections needed here.\
	(1) First, weighted features should not be computed until after linking...currently\
		the weighted features are NOT recomputed correctly after harmonics or links added.\
		New code:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf3 		%%%%  together--this saves time on the reconstruction step.
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28     		[feature_ridge,final_image]=link_features(feature_ridge,param,initial_final_image,Idebug+1);
\fs24 \

\fs28     
\fs24 \

\fs28     		\cf3 %%Extract features from grayscale image--SNR-weighted features.  Need to
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28 \cf3     		%%      have final linked results.  April 20, 2010 change
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28     	     feature=extract_features_from_grayscale_image(feature_ridge,Beq,labeled_contour,numObjects,T,F,Idebug);
\fs24 \

\fs28      
\fs24 \

\fs28   AFTER revision 122 started to correct and rearrange grayscale work
\fs24 \
\
\
	(2) Second, link_calls loop should rerun until no changes--a link could be followed\
	by a harmonic merge, for example\
	A segment completely enclosed by another segment should also be captured. \
		For example, a small segment in between two large harmonic segments(See 
\fs28 datenum(2008,10,1,3,14,43);
\fs24 \
\
\

\fs28 final_image_cell(:,:,Nimages)=final_image;  %Can this be a sparse matrix?
\fs24 \

\fs28     
\fs24 \
April 20, 2010:\
	\
Quick check of 
\f5 complete_movie_Shell08_Site2_NeuralNetupdated.morph.BearingInterval:  Site 2 only, revised\
interval detection method, plus double neural network.  The revised interval method has the 'adjacent' ICI checking method--more\
restrictive for accepting ICI intervals...\
\
April 21, 2010:\
Still revising segment linking in extract_image_features.m  No checking to macmussel SVN.\
Definition of Contour area ratio changed,  TotalBoundingBox computed consistently when features clumped.\
Contour features only computed for contours associated with a ridge\
Contour extent added as a feature.\
Fixed error in kurtosis:\

\f1\fs28  fourth_moment=(sum(mask4)./sum(mask));  %was originally mask3\
\
April 22, 2010\
I renamed feature names extensively and am now computing more contour features.  Am also computing\
maximum local bandwidth as well as minimum local bandwidth.  keywords have been redefined and many\
variable names in extract_image_features.m redefined as well.  \
\
Committed revision 123 to SVN.  Major major changes to the image processing, particularly the feature\
linkages and merges with contour processing...\
\
April 23, 2010\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \
Changed linking so that component splicing is conducted first, followed by harmonic linking.  The process is now\
repeated until there are no changes.\
\
Committed revisions 124 to SVN.\
\
Ideally the binary features should be updated after linking and merging, perhaps\
by morphological processing an image with only the components alone, using structuring element of same dimensions as tolerances.\
\
May 7, 2010\
The former postprocessor_morph.m has been renamed extract_image_features.m, and changes completed.  Here are a summary of changes over the past few weeks:\
	(1) Features not initially extracted from contour image.\
	(2) Variable names changed for consistency, 'component','ridge', 'contour' defined consistently\
	(3) link_features completely rewritten; now splicing occurs first.  After a splice, binary features are then\
		extracted in detail: so 'extent' and 'solidity' are now correct after a splice.\
  		Then harmonics are extracted.  A new harmonic criteria is included: 'test_ovlapc', where a component 			with 				frequencies that lie within bounding box is now incorporated.\
\
	(4) merge_ridge_with_contour.m revised so morphological reconstruction not required.\
	(5) Feature filtering now takes place after link_features, so short components not eliminated before being spliced.\
	(6) A contour image is now returned, along with many contour features.\
	(7) SNR-weighted features not computed til the very end to save time.  Error in kurtosis calculation corrected.\
	(8) Defined Area_contour , AreaRatio_contour and ExtentTotal features.\
	(9) Created a new harmonic detector (see May 11), test_ovlapd\
\
SVN revision 127.  Now proceeding to station creation corrections.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0            
\fs24 \
May 9, 2010\
\
create_station.m has now been updated with the new field names, but no new features have been added yet.  \
Committed revision 128 n 129.\
\
\
Now make a set of example signals:\
\
(1)  Single whale call, esp. U-shaped;\
(2)  Whale call with harmonics\
(3)  Weak airgun signal;\
(4)  Strong airgun signal: Site 3g, ctime 
\fs28 1.221793800052335e+09, or 2008-09-19 03:10:00.  Demonstrates impact of using\
contour threshold to remove dispersed pulses.
\fs24 \
\
(5)  Leopard seal.\
(6)  Walrus call.\
\
Walrus calls 2f between 9/10/08, 7:14 to 9:19 AM, captured by ICI detector.... ICI all over the place...\
\
19-Aug-2008 11:54:06 (2f): shot intervals are 4 seconds!\
21-Aug-2008 10:10:39:  shot intervals irregular, 23 seconds, and 10-12 sec\
10-Sep-2008 07:56:47: more walrus, picked up by ICI, but period less than 4 sec...\
22-Sep-2008 21:24:17:  first real point of confusion between whale call sequence and airgun\
23-Sep-2008 06:04:49 more problems, ICI 7.75 bearing 177\
\
\
\
May 11-12 Created a much better harmonic detector (vs. the previous overtone detector), exploiting the\
T and F output of extract_features_from_grayscale_image.  I found that base harmonic may be missing,\
so I have to look for ratios of 3/2 as well as integer ratios\
\
Spent a little time on walrus pulsive calls, decided it would be difficult to incorporate.\
\
\
May 26:  Completely overhauled structure of param.morph, now called param.image, into\

\fs28 \cf3 param:  parameters for processing.  Broken down into the following substructures:
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28 \cf3 %         basic: [1x1 struct]
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28 \cf3 %         median: [1x1 struct]
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28 \cf3 %         filter: [1x1 struct]
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28 \cf3 %         threshold: [1x1 struct]
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28 \cf3 %         merge: [1x1 struct]
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28 \cf3 %         ridge: [1x1 struct]
\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs28 \cf3 %         contour: [1x1 struct]
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
I also fixed the feature.harmonic and feature.overtone features so that they are only scalars.  Also added comments to output to clarify each processing step.\
\
Committed as revision 133.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f4\i\b \cf0 **Since April 14 have been rerunning 2008 data using svn version 121: improved interval detector (including evaluation of consistent ICI)\
and double network training, with original (as of April 2010) image processor.  Note: ALL DASARS are processed and linked, even "bad ones" on this round...\
Dates of processing:\
	Site 2: 4/14/10 13:01 to 4/18 8:53\
	Site 3: 4/20/10 18?55 to 4/23 07:00\
	Site 4: 5/9/10 22:22 to 5/12\
	Site 5: 5/13/10 02:23 to 5/16 9:13\
	Site 1: 5/16/10 to 5/25/10 11:56 (9/20 only)--clearly something extra special here.  Took 8 hours to process 9/05!!!\
***\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Created a "trunk" and "branch_Mar2010version" in the svn repository, the latter being the former version 121 with minimal changes, and is thus the program that has been reprocessing the 2008 data in April/May 2010.\
\
\
5/28/2010 Quick test drive of new image processing on S1H 9/21  ~300 detections/sec vs. 1200/sec for old version.  Why so slow?\
\
Out of 530 detections reviewed, 362 pass image processing, or 68.3019 percent pass\
Image processing stage finished in  23.43 seconds or 1357.07 detections/minute\
\
Image processing stage finished in    258.60 detections/minute\
\
After adding a 'splice_flag' feature and running 'extract_binary_features' as few times as possible...\
Out of 530 detections reviewed, 487 pass image processing, or 91.8868 percent pass\
Image processing stage finished in  36.01 seconds or 883.13 detections/minute\
\
\
6/3/2010\
\
Processing S108H0T20080921T000000\
Running JAVA script\
JAVA program run in 105.31 seconds\
End of file reached after detection 19184, error flag type 0\
File pointer no longer valid, resetting...\
Opening file\
Closing file...\
Raw data loaded in 274.59 seconds, min time 21-Sep-2008 00:00:02 max time 21-Sep-2008 23:59:55\
Elapsed time is 274.585071 seconds.\
ICI does not fit inside range\
ICI does not fit inside range\
After  18.43 sec interval check 489 regular signals, 18694 out of 19183 detections remain.\
\
\
6/30/2010. review of 'Shell09_Recompute_BearingInterval_NeuralNetupdated'\
\
Site 1: 8/26- 10/03 , missing singletons: 8/31, 9/07; 9/23 missing\
Site 2: 8/25- 10/04 ,  \
Site 3: 8/23- 9/30, 9/24 duplicate\
Site 4: 8/19 - 9/05, 9/07-10/01\
Site 5: 8/21 - 10/05,\
}